solvers/sqa/README.md, before:

# Asta Scholar QA

SQA is the long-form question answering system published in Singh et al., 2025.
It has a retrieval and reranking component and a multi-step LLM to create the final report.

SQA is intended to be run only against the `sqa_dev` or `sqa_test` tasks.
The backbone LLM model with which to call the SQA pipeline can be specified with the -S completion_model parameter to the demo.sh script as in the below examples.


This also requires a reranker model, specifically [mxbai-rerank-large-v1](https://huggingface.co/mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-large-v1), to select the top 50 search results.
The reranker can be deployed on a service like Modal, in which case the [`MODAL_TOKEN`](https://modal.com/) to be set as an environment variable, 
and the <app_name> and <api_name> params have to be passed as params to the script as below (with an optional batch size param):

```bash
./solvers/sqa/demo.sh -S completion_model=anthropic/claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 -S reranker_type=modal -S app_name=<app_name> -S api_name=<api_name> -S batch_size=256
```

Alternatively, the reranker can be run locally as an instance of SentenceTransformer as below:

```bash
./solvers/sqa/demo.sh -S completion_model=anthropic/claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 -S reranker_type=crossencoder -S model_name_or_path=mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-large-v1
```
*Please ensure you have torch and transformers installed in your environment for local reranking.*

*The mxbai model is what our production Asta pipeline uses. In addition to modal and cross encoder, you can also specify other Sentence Transformer supported reranker models. Please refer to [SQA reranker script](https://github.com/allenai/ai2-scholarqa-lib/blob/main/api/scholarqa/rag/reranker/reranker_base.py) for usage.*

Commit message:

Decouple solvers with per-solver uv sub-projects + lockfiles (#16)

solvers/sqa/README.md, after:

# Asta Scholar QA

SQA is the long-form question answering system published in Singh et al., 2025.
It has a retrieval and reranking component and a multi-step LLM to create the final report.

SQA is intended to be run only against the `sqa_dev` or `sqa_test` tasks.
The backbone LLM model with which to call the SQA pipeline can be specified with the -S completion_model parameter to the demo.sh script as in the below examples.

## Dependencies

This solver is configured as a per‑solver uv sub‑project in `solvers/sqa/pyproject.toml`.
Install deps with:
```
./solvers/sqa/setup.sh
```


This also requires a reranker model, specifically [mxbai-rerank-large-v1](https://huggingface.co/mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-large-v1), to select the top 50 search results.
The reranker can be deployed on a service like Modal, in which case the [`MODAL_TOKEN`](https://modal.com/) to be set as an environment variable, 
and the <app_name> and <api_name> params have to be passed as params to the script as below (with an optional batch size param):

```bash
./solvers/sqa/demo.sh -S completion_model=anthropic/claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 -S reranker_type=modal -S app_name=<app_name> -S api_name=<api_name> -S batch_size=256
```

Alternatively, the reranker can be run locally as an instance of SentenceTransformer as below:

```bash
./solvers/sqa/demo.sh -S completion_model=anthropic/claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219 -S reranker_type=crossencoder -S model_name_or_path=mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-large-v1
```
*Please ensure you have torch and transformers installed in your environment for local reranking.*

*The mxbai model is what our production Asta pipeline uses. In addition to modal and cross encoder, you can also specify other Sentence Transformer supported reranker models. Please refer to [SQA reranker script](https://github.com/allenai/ai2-scholarqa-lib/blob/main/api/scholarqa/rag/reranker/reranker_base.py) for usage.*
